# Cybersecurity Careers

This module will start with the demand and need for Cybersecurity professionals and how aspirants can enter the field. You will learn the different training options that are available for starting a career in Cybersecurity. The succeeding lessons will cover the different roles and responsibilities of entry-level, mid-level, and advanced-level cybersecurity professionals. In addition, you will learn the range of salaries awarded to the roles at the different levels of Cybersecurity careers.

## Learning Objectives

- List the available options as a cybersecurity professional.
- Describe the need for a cybersecurity professional.
- List the skills, non-technical, and technical background of individuals aspiring for a career in Cybersecurity.
- Describe the different training and networking options.
- Describe the responsibilities and salaries of entry-level roles of a Cybersecurity Specialist, Cybercrime Analyst, Incident and Intrusion Analyst, and an IT Auditor.
- Describe the responsibilities and salaries of mid-level roles of a Cybersecurity Analyst, Cybersecurity Consultant, and Penetration and Vulnerability Tester.
- Describe the responsibilities and salaries of advanced-level roles of a Cybersecurity Manager, Chief Information Security Officer, Cybersecurity Engineer, and Cybersecurity Architect.

## Why Cybersecurity

- Cybersecurity is a shield against malicious cyber threats.
- As a cybersecurity professional, you could be a security analyst, a cryptographer, or an ethical hacker.
- Cybersecurity as a profession brings corresponding financial rewards along with the associated responsibilities.
- The cyber threats have become more intense from ransomware attacks to phishing scams.
- Consumer demand for privacy and security is directly proportionate to the growth and demand for cybersecurity professionals.

## Cybersecurity Compared to Information Security 

It’s important to note that Cybersecurity is a subset of information security, explicitly addressing the protection of digital assets in cyberspace.

Cybersecurity focuses on safeguarding computer systems, networks, and digital assets from cyber threats such as hacking, malware, and unauthorized access. It uses safety measures such as firewalls, encryption, and intrusion detection systems to protect against cyber-attacks.

While information security encompasses protecting all forms of information, including physical and digital data, it includes not only the technical aspects of Cybersecurity but also organizational policies, procedures, and practices which ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information. Security measures include data classification, access controls, employee awareness, and incident response.

## Cybersecurity Market Information 

As per the market definition in Cybersecurity - Worldwide:

“Cybersecurity is the process that provides and maintains confidentiality, integrity, availability, and privacy. This includes measures to prevent and respond to all cybercrimes, to protect computer systems, networks, programs, and data (e.g., personal assets, important files, industrial and governmental information). The market for Cybersecurity includes revenues generated by the two key products, namely Cyber Solution and Security Services.”

- “Revenue in the cybersecurity market is projected to reach $162 billion in 2023.” 
- “Revenue is expected to show an annual growth rate of 9.63%, resulting in a market volume of $256 billion by 2028.”

## Impact of Cybersecurity Attacks 

The surge in cyberattacks is causing damage worth trillions of dollars resulting in a potential market opportunity of $2 trillion for cybersecurity technology and service providers. Digital crime is also on the rise with the growth of the digital economy, consequently leading to a projection of annual damage worth nearly $10.5 trillion by 2025. Regardless of an increase in cybersecurity expenditure of around $150 billion in 2021, the extent of the problem suggests it’s inadequate. 

A recent survey shows that the volume of threats in 2022 was twice as much as in 2021, with 80% of the threat groups and over 40% of the malware detected in 2021 being new. The current commercial solutions don’t fully address customer requirements, creating a gap between the demand and the available security solutions. This gap indicates a massive addressable market that can exploit continuous technological improvements, simplicity, and innovation in meeting the needs of neglected segments.

## Mid-level roles 

- Mid-level roles in cybersecurity play a critical part in protecting an organization's digital assets.
- Mid-level roles are cybersecurity analyst, cybersecurity consultant, and penetration and vulnerability tester.
- While their responsibilities may differ, all roles share the same goal. Ensuring the organization's information assets, integrity, confidentiality, and availability.
